# onekeys

1. CUSTOMISED LESSONS
One of the biggest advantages of private tuition is that lessons can easily be customised to suit each student. Whereas in school a student may be at a disadvantage, if, for example they work at a different pace to the rest of the class, or need to focus more attention on a specific aspect of the course, private tuition largely negates these problems. Learners will benefit from the fact that a tutor can adjust the pace, focus and goals of a lesson depending on the needs and abilities of the student, meaning that learning efficiency will be maximised. This is an especially important point to note for any students that have learning disorders, such as dyslexia or dyspraxia. A good tutor will be able to take this into account and be a great benefit to a student.

2. ONE-TO-ONE TEACHING, MORE TIME AND ATTENTION
Another huge positive gained from private tuition is the amount of time a student will receive from a teacher. As private tuition is usually on a one-to-one basis, teachers can focus their attention fully on a student. This is obviously a huge advantage compared classes of twenty to thirty pupils where a teacher’s time is divided and individuals can very easily become lost in the crowd. With less distractions, the tutor is better able to appreciate and work on a student’s weak points, making the whole learning process more effective.

3. CAN CHOOSE THE RIGHT TEACHER
Students will respond better to a teacher that is suited to them, in terms of both temperament and learning style. Unlike school, where students generally have very little, if any, choice in regards to who their teachers are, opting for private tuition does allow the student or their parents to pick a tutor that they feel comfortable with. As there is such a wide range of tutors available, each with their own strengths, specialities and learning styles, there is bound to be a tutor that is well suited to each and every student. Finding the right tutor, that can engage and inspire, can really make a big difference for the learner.

4. INCREASED CONFIDENCE
As private tuition is usually one-to-one, tutors and students are able to work much more closely and develop stronger relationships than would otherwise be possible in a larger class. The impact that this can have on a student is profound, as teachers will be able to get to know their students better, and so will find it easier to spot potential problems and give them assistance. For shy students, being in a learning environment with less people can also help them to express themselves, as they are under less pressure from their peers.

5. HELP WITH HOMEWORK AND TEST PRACTICE
Homework can often be a boring, and sometimes daunting, experience for students. Left to their own devices, many will just work through it without really engaging in the subject, and it becomes more of a box ticking exercise. Having a tutor who is able to keep the student focussed and interested will ensure that the homework is not only completed to a higher standard, but, more importantly, is more effective in terms of what a student is able to gain from it. Similarly, tutors can be especially effective in regards to test preparation. The advice and assistance that they can provide ranges from the structuring of revision, to troubleshooting weak points in the student’s knowledge. As such, a tutor’s help can prove invaluable.

6. MORE INTERESTING MATERIALS AND FORM OF STUDY
School lessons can often be quite rigid in their learning style, as they often have very set goals and a strong reliance on text books. Private classes usually have a less formal approach though, and so are more flexible as a result. This leaves tutors free to use whichever materials and learning styles which they deem most useful. Thus, a student will often be faced with materials that they would not encounter in school. These adaptations can be a great help, as they prevent students from becoming bored whilst at the same time pushing their boundaries and providing them with a challenge.
